.TH prisma_argbto8color 3 2014-12-25
.SH NAME
prisma_8colortoargb \- get a True-Color ARGB value from an 8-color.
.br
prisma_argbto8color \- get an 8-color from a True-Color ARGB value.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <prisma.h>
.PP
.B uint8_t  prisma_argbto8color(uint32_t \fIargb\fB);
.br
.B uint32_t prisma_8colortoargb(uint8_t \fIsrc\fB);
.SH DESCRIPTION
prisma defines an 8-color as a color that uses 3 bits, after the color table the ANSI escape sequences use for basic couloured output
.br
(see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_escape_code#Colors).
.br
You can refer to the following set : 
.br
0 Black
.br
1 Red
.br
2 Green
.br
3 Yellow
.br
4 Blue
.br
5 Magenta
.br
6 Cyan
.br
7 White
.SH RETURN VALUE
prisma_argbto8color() returns the closest 8-color value matching \fIargb\fR (regardless of Alpha), conforming to the set above.
.br
prisma_8colortoargb() returns \fIsrc\fR as a True-Color ARGB value.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <stdint.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <prisma.h>

int main(void) {
    uint32_t my_color = 0xffff42ff;
    printf("#%.8x approximates to #%.8x as an 8-color (of value %u).\\n", 
            my_color, 
            prisma_8colortoargb(prisma_argbto8color(my_color)), 
            prisma_argbto8color(my_color));
    exit(EXIT_SUCCESS);
}
.fi
.SH BUGS
Bug reports should be sent to yoanlecoq.io@gmail.com.
.SH COPYRIGHT
prisma is released under the CC0 license.
.br
(see http://creativecommons.org/about/cc0)
.br
Anyone may freely build upon, enhance and reuse prisma for any purposes without restriction under copyright or database law.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR prisma_argbtoxterm (3),
.BR prisma_xtermtoargb (3)

