.TH prisma_argbtoxterm 3 2014-12-25
.SH NAME
prisma_xtermtoargb \- get a True-Color ARGB value from an Xterm Color Index.
.br
prisma_argbtoxterm \- get an Xterm Color Index from a True-Color ARGB value.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <prisma.h>
.PP
.B uint8_t  prisma_argbtoxterm(uint32_t \fIargb\fB);
.br
.B uint32_t prisma_xtermtoargb(uint8_t \fIindex\fB);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Xterm, one of the most common Linux terminal emulators, supports extended ANSI Escape Sequences for coloured output, which refer to a 256-color chart.
.br
This chart allows up to 216 RGB colors, 24 shades of grey, a decreased-intensity 8-color set and a high-intensity 8-color set.
.br
prisma refers to an Xterm Color Index as an unsigned byte, indicating a value in the Xterm Color Chart.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.B prisma_argbtoxterm()
returns the closest Xterm Color Index value matching \fIargb\fR (ignoring its Alpha), conforming to the Xterm Color Chart.
.br
.B prisma_xtermtoargb()
returns \fIindex\fR as a True-Color ARGB value.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <stdint.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <prisma.h>

int main(void) {
    uint32_t my_color = 0xffff42ff;
    printf("#%.8x approximates to #%.8x as an Xterm Color (of index %u).\\n", 
            my_color, 
            prisma_xtermtoargb(prisma_argbtoxterm(my_color)), 
            prisma_argbtoxterm(my_color));
    exit(EXIT_SUCCESS);
}
.fi
.SH BUGS
Bug reports should be sent to yoanlecoq.io@gmail.com.
.SH COPYRIGHT
prisma is released under the CC0 license.
.br
(see http://creativecommons.org/about/cc0)
.br
Anyone may freely build upon, enhance and reuse prisma for any purposes without restriction under copyright or database law.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR prisma_argbto8color (3),
.BR prisma_8colortoargb (3)

