.TH prisma 7 2014-12-25
.SH DESCRIPTION
prisma is a small C/C++ library, which allows easy ANSI escape sequence generation and interpretation.
.br
Moreover, it provides some funny functions to play with colors.
.br
This is prisma 1.0.0. In this version, prisma supports only Select Graphics Rendition (SGR) ANSI escape sequences. 
.PP
It is NOT destined to text-based user interfaces. For this, one should rather use ncurses.
.PP 
However, prisma can adapt the ANSI escape sequences it generates to Xterm, Linux TTY, and fake their behaviour on Window's cmd.exe.
.PP
prisma's main purpose is to be used in small applications that need to store extra informations inside of strings, that should not be interpreted as text (for instance, storing a text along with its color within a single string).
.PP
Applications that would make a great use of prisma would be small chat widgets, in-game command-lines, informative loading screens and the like.
.SH GENERAL USE
All of prisma's constants and functions are prefixed, respectively, with 'PRISMA__' and 'prisma_'. Those starting with '_' are meant for internal use only.
Some of prisma's functions come with a shorter version, prefixed by 'prismas_' (note the 's' at the end).
.PP
Depending on what you wish to do, here is where to get started. Examples are given in each of prisma's manual pages.
.PP
Generate escape sequences :
.br
.BR prisma_dtoe (3)
.PP
Interpret escape sequences :
.br
.BR prisma_etod (3)
.PP
Adapt prisma's output to a specific terminal :
.br
.BR prisma_adapt (3)
.PP
Play with colors :
.br
.BR prisma_bytestoargb (3)
.br
.BR prisma_argbtobytes (3)
.br
.BR prisma_gradient (3)
.br
.BR prisma_xtermtoargb (3)
.br
.BR prisma_argbtoxterm (3)
.br
.BR prisma_8colortoargb (3)
.br
.BR prisma_argbto8color (3)
.SH NOTES
prisma originated as a BASH script printing a given text in rainbow colors. It would work properly only on Xterm, and the RGB-to-xterm color conversion algorithm was empiric and insane. Today, prisma makes writing such a program far easier.
.SH BUGS
.BR prisma_adapt (3)
Bug reports should be sent to yoanlecoq.io@gmail.com.
.SH COPYRIGHT
prisma is released under the CC0 license.
.br
(see http://creativecommons.org/about/cc0)
.br
Anyone may freely build upon, enhance and reuse prisma for any purposes without restriction under copyright or database law.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR prisma_dtoe (3),
.BR prisma_etod (3),
.BR prisma_adapt (3),
.BR prisma_gradient (3)
